# INFO-5082
Data Science Project
Retail industry is a vast and major sector of the economy. In today’s world, many businesses are starting retail stores. It is important for the stores to run successfully and control the loss of profit. Many businesses and retailers are still using the old forecasting techniques and gut instinct.[ Rod Daugherty,2019]. Retailers need to practice predictive analysis to improve the growth of sales, understand the product management, optimize the supplies. This way the business can operate dynamic and have competitive business. According to research companies with sales forecast are 10% more likely to grow their revenue year over year.

A toy store company named Maven toys located in Mexico wants to manage inventory efficiently to improve sales. To achieve this, I will be using machine learning techniques on the company data and study their products and sales. The dataset is provided by Kaggle. The link to the dataset is – Mexico Toy Sales | Kaggle. The dataset contains inventory, products, sales, and stores data. The inventory dataset has store ID, productId, stocks_on_hand. Product dataset has Product Id, product_name, product_category, product_cost, product_price. Sales dataset has sale_id, date. Product_id, product_cost, Product_price. Store dataset has store_id, store_name, store_city, store_location, store_open_date. The data has the sales record for the year 2017 and 2018 sep. This project is important as I get to analysis the store sales, inventory, and their profits. I expect to learn the way to perform exploratory data analysis, feature selection and data modelling. It is important to know which features are required for the data model prediction and their algorithms. Apply the machine learning models like regression, random forest, time series analysis, helps me to improve my skills and make me expertise as data scientist. There are many machine learning techniques provided for retail analytics however many retail companies are not using it yet. My work would help to find the more accurate and consistent model in the analysis.
